---
layout: post
date:   2018-04-03 10:41:00 -0400
category: banana-bread
tags: log
---
The iconographic language of the Paracas embroi­deries recurs in the textiles and ceramics of the Nasca culture based in the valley of the Rio Grande de Nazca, some sixty miles south of Paracas, from about the first century AD until the eighth. The Nasca erected large pyramidal structures at Cahuachi, a ceremonial site and pilgrimage center, and they are known for the Nasca lines, huge geoglyphs (created by removing red rocks to reveal the paler ground beneath) forming geometric and animal shapes that traverse the desert floor.<!--excerpt--> The Nasca built elaborate underground irriga­tion systems, now called puquios, that made agricul­ture possible. Cactus's ability to bear water-filled fruit had significance to a culture dependent on hard-won subsistence in the dry desert climate. (The illustra­tions on Nasca pottery also confirm that certain types of cacti were valued for their hallucinogenic and psy­chotropic properties.) Climate changes in the region in this period may have favored the growth of cactus, and the Nasca population also moved upriver to a habi­tat more favorable to the plants. 13 At what stage in history the primary focus shifted from the fruit of the cactus to the wild parasitic cochineal insect that destroys its host is not clear. But it was in the florescence of the Nasca culture that mastery of the production of red color from cochineal began on the south coast of Peru.

1. Tunic. Peru, Chimu, 12th-15th century. Tapestry­weave cotton and cochineal­dyed camelid hair, 23¼ x 30¼ in. (72.7 x 76.8 cm). The Metropolitan Museum of Art, The Michael C. Rockefeller Memorial Collection, Bequest of Nelson A. Rockefeller, 1979 (1979.206.588)
As soon as cochineal red appeared in the Ameri­cas, it eclipsed all other sources for the production of red-colored textiles. Easy to use and containing an abundance of colorant, cochineal quickly spread throughout the region. Some of the early examples of cochineal-dyed ritual cloths have been found in the central highlands in the Ancash region of north­ern Peru. Among them is a fragment of a camelid-hair textile in the Metropolitan's collection (fig. 31) that was produced by the Recuay people, who were con­temporaries of the Nasca.